# About this theme

This theme is called "Pachyderm" and lives in `/themes/pachyderm`. 

## Theme Directories

### `/assets` 

The assets directory is for resources that you intend to transform (minify, optimize, etc) such as CSS, javascript, etc. For static assets, see the Static section.

 You can reference assets in your layouts like so:

```go 
{{$toc := resources.Get "js/toc.js"  | resources.Minify  }}
{{ $clippy := resources.Get "js/clipboard.js"  | resources.Minify }}
{{ $relatedArticles := resources.Get "js/relatedArticles.js"  | resources.Minify }}
{{ $darkMode := resources.Get "js/darkMode.js" | resources.Minify   }}
{{ $notices := resources.Get "js/notices.js"  | resources.Minify  }}

{{ $js := slice  $darkMode $toc $clippy $relatedArticles $notices | resources.Concat "js/bundle.js"}}

<script src="{{ $js.Permalink }}" ></script> ## result 
```

#### `/css` 

The CSS used in this theme is powered by [Bulma](https://bulma.io/). Bulma is an easy and very lightweight framework that makes maintaining a high PageSpeed score a breeze. 

The `brand.css` file is laid on top of `bulma.css` to flavor the framework with custom colors and add any project-specfic needs. As a best practice, use an obvious naming convention (e.g., `brand-fade-in`; `brand-fixed`) for CSS classes that are not Bulma. This will help you whenever you want to iterate or troubleshoot. 

#### `/js` 

The JS in this theme is hand-rolled; the less dependencies there are, the faster your site will build, load (PageSpeed score), and the easier it will be to collaborate with people who have different machines. If you find this JS is not efficient, *please* say so and optimize it -- but try to avoid adding dependencies. 

---

### `/layouts`

Layouts are ordered and generated by **Default** > **Partials** > **Shortcodes**.

Shortcodes are not used in layouts themselves; they are used in markdown files.

### `/default` 

Contains base layout templates that define the broader shape of the content. 

These templates reference partial layouts and "blocks." Blocks are named placeholder-wrappers that allow higher-level layouts to be inserted into their lower-level layout counterparts during site generation.  

Blocks are placed in lower-level layouts with:

```go
{{block "<blockName>"}} {{end}}
```

And defined in higher-level layouts with:

```go
{{define "<blockName>"}} <html, templating, text> {{end}}
```

#### `/_markup` 

Contains the `render-heading.html` layout which is responsible for looping over h1-h6 and adding anchored links during the build process. 

#### default templates

Contains the opening and closing HTML tags; wraps around the `list`, `single`, `section`, and `series` layouts (which are passed in through the `main` block). 

Partials included: 

- **head** (css and fonts are here)
- **nav**
- **directory**
- **featureBreadcrumbs**
- **featureEditGithub**
- **featureTags**
- **footer** (js is here)

##### glossary template

A standalone default layout for showing child pages as a scrollable stack. To use this layout, define `layout: glossary` on the parent page of any collection you wish to view as a glossary. Using the glossary layout hides the children from the `directory` file tree (the assumption being way too many entries will show up and distort your directory.)

##### list template

Auto-generated pages like taxonomy pages and the default home  page (`/index.html`) are considered list pages. You can create a unique home page by defining a `index.html` template in your `layouts` folder.

**note**: the child pages displayed on lists are defined directly on this layout and do not use the partial `featureChildPages`.

##### section template

A default layout for parent pages (`_index.html`).  This layout defines the `main` block placed in the `baseof` template and shows child pages as cards that include a title, a page count, and a summary.

Partials included:

- **featureBetaNotice**
- **featureChildPages**

##### series template

A taxonomy-specific layout for the custom taxonomy key `series`. This layout aggregates the tagged pages and displays a single, scrollable view. Use the `seriesPart` front matter field to order your series from `0-999`.

```yaml
series: "getting started"
seriesPart: 1
```

Partials included:

- **featureBetaNotice**

##### single template

A default layout for standard pages that have no children/descendants. This layout defines the `main` block placed in the `baseof` template. 
 
Partials included: 

- **featureSeriesButton**
- **featureBetaNotice**
- **featureNextPrev**

#### Partial Templates

Partial layouts (`/themes/<themeName>/layouts/partials`) are reusable components placed in `_default` layouts. For this theme, partials prefixed with `feature` can be hidden or displayed by editing their global feature flag in the `config.yaml` file.

Default feature config: 

```yaml
params:
  # Feature Switches #

  ## Branding features
  logos:
    nav:  "/../images/pachLogo.svg"
    footer: "/../images/footerLogo.svg"

  ## Content features
  childPages: 
    display: true # displays child pages of a section.
    grandchildren: true # displays first 7 grandchildren as buttons in the card.
  editLink: 
    display: true #  displays a link to the corresponding github file for a given page; githubUrl must be set.
    githubUrl: https://github.com/lbliii/milo/tree/main/content/  # should end with content/ 
  giscus: true # displays giscus commenting on single pages.
  heroBanner:
    single: true # displays hero section with a background image, title, description, and date on single pages.
    section: true # displays hero section [...] on section pages.
    list: true # displays hero section [...] on list pages. 
    glossary: true # displays hero section [...] on glossary pages (layout:glossary frontmatter). 
  relatedArticles: true # displays related content on page.
  seriesButton: true #  displays a "Read the <> series" button at the bottom of a page with series frontmatter.
  toc: true #  displays a table of contents in a page; can be overridden by individual page settings. (WIP)

  ## HomePage Features
   # TODO: add date sort to range on featureDisplayVideos
  Videos: true # displays first 3 videos from "/tutorials/videos/", sorted by date.
  CommunityDetails: true  # displays slack and other community details (WIP)
  
  ## Release Features
  versionDropdown: true # displays a top-nav dropdown with top-level sections served as versioned documentation. 
  downloads: true # Enables displaying the download dropdown (requires release.patch)
  releaseInfo:
    latest: "2.3.x" # displays matching directory's sections on home page; if blank, all directories are displayed.
    patch: "2.2.7" # Used to generate download links


  ## Nav features 
  navLevel: true  #  displays level-2 directory items in the file tree.
  breadcrumbs: true # displays a trail of breadcrumbs
  nextPrev: true #  displays the next and previous article available on single page.

  ## Testing Features
  defaultCss: false # displays default bulma css only without branding.
```

### Shortcodes 

Shortcodes are reusable components that style content/data from the markdown (.md) file itself. This is useful for injecting callouts, quizzes, iframes, and highly-referenced information while keeping only one source of truth.  

As a best practice, keep your content-driven shortcodes in a `/content` subdirectory, and your data driven-shortcodes in a `/data` subdirectory. 

Hugo comes with [a few pre-built shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/), such as support for GitHub Gists, Youtube Videos, Vimeo Videos, Tweets, Figures, and more. 

#### Custom Shortcodes 

Shortcodes are powerful because of their flexibility and ease of use. Below is our `notice.html` (callout) as an example:

```go
<div class="notification {{ .Get 0 }}">
    <button class="delete"></button>
    {{.Inner}}
</div>
```

1. Define the html and css; in this case a div with the Bulma class `notification`.
2. Define the templating details:
   -  `{{ .Get 0 }}` passes in the first argument of the shortcode as a string
   -  `{{.Inner}}` passes the wrapped markdown content.

```go 
{{% notice tip %}}
My inner text is here! Supports markdown formatting.
{{% /notice %}}
```

In this case, `tip` is the first argument; it is a CSS class created to style the div beyond Bulma's default `notification` class styling. You can pass multiple arguments to a shortcode, and even use the page's frontmatter or site's global variables. 

--- 

## Static

The static folder should contain only **theme** assets that you do not need or want to transform; default images/svgs, fonts, etc. These static assets are served directly from the `/images` path of your site.

```css
.theme-pattern {
    background-image: url(/images/pachContentBG.svg);
    background-repeat: no-repeat;
    background-size: cover;
    
}
```

**Note**: Your theme's static folder is different from your site's static folder; you can also store static assets from a top-level `/static` folder. 

---

## SEO 

### OpenGraph

- Uses default internal Hugo template `{{ template "_internal/opengraph.html" . }}`
- Found in `/themes/pachyderm/layouts/partials/head.html`

### Robots.txt 

- Enabled by `enableRobotsTXT: true` in config.yaml 
- Template is found in `/themes/pachyderm/layouts/robots.txt`
- Disallows following links on older release pages   

#### Default Template

```
{{range after 2 .Site.Sections.ByTitle.Reverse}}

    {{range .Sections}}

    Disallow: {{ .RelPermalink }}

        {{ if .Pages}}

            {{range .Pages}}
    
                Disallow: {{ .RelPermalink }}
    
            {{end}}
        
        {{end}}

    {{end}}

{{end}}
```
### Twitter Cards

- Uses default internal Hugo template `{{ template "_internal/twitter_cards.html" . }}`
- Found in `/themes/pachyderm/layouts/partials/head.html`